Justin Traglia: Good morning. I thought I'd join the freakout role today.
Jihoon: Hi, Justin.
Jihoon: Very pleasure to have you in the FOCIL Breakout.
Justin Traglia: Ugh.
Justin Traglia: Thanks.
Jihoon: It's been a… How many weeks?
Justin Traglia: How many? How many months? Since I… since I last joined? A while.
Jihoon: Nice, nice.
Justin Traglia: Are there more updates than just your PR?
Jihoon: It's mostly PR on the CL and the EL, and then Fabio wants to…
Jihoon: Discuss how we are gonna do integration tests among clients, so we can briefly go over that, and that's pretty much it.
Justin Traglia: Okay, nice.
Jihoon: Cool.
Jihoon: Hi, Pella.
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: Hey, how are you doing?
Jihoon: Doing great. Are you back from your traveling?
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: Yeah, I flew all the way to San Francisco for a wedding, so just got back from Berlin, so still jet-lagged.
Jihoon: Oh.
Jihoon: How was your San Francisco?
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: It was good. Made me realize how much I like Europe, though, so…
Jihoon: Hmm.
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: It's gonna be hard to go back.
Jihoon: Hi, Fabio.
Fabio Di Fabio: Hey. Hi, everyone.
Jihoon: Hello.
Jihoon: I think we can wait a few more minutes.
Jihoon: I just said.
Justin Florentine (Besu): So far?
Jihoon: From pesso.
Justin Traglia: Hello, as well.
Jihoon: I think, nice, we also have sales developer here, so…
Jihoon: I think we're good to start.
Jihoon: Hello, everyone! Welcome to FOCIL Breakout.
Jihoon: 33. Today, we can share spec updates, development updates, and then testing.
Jihoon: Alright, let's start with spec updates. So, I've opened the PR to the CL spec that changes inclusion list deadlines.
Jihoon: I think this change… Makes the protocol simpler and easier to reason about while achieving the same.
Jihoon: Here is the link, and let's have a look if we have some time.
Jihoon: And… Felix from Steel made a PR that introduces some necessary framework change to support fossil testing.
Jihoon: and adds a bunch of test cases for the EL.
Jihoon: The PR is marched, so… Feel free to run those test cases against your clients.
Jihoon: Alright, here's the PR if you want to see where we edit.
Jihoon: So, these are the spec updates. I'm happy to take any questions. Otherwise, we can move on to development updates.
Justin Florentine (Besu): As an EL dev, what does the BPS suffix mean?
Justin Traglia: basis points. It's a… Like, 1 out of 10,000.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Cool, thank you.
Justin Traglia: Is there someone that can review that PR, Jihoon? Like, I tagged Thomas, but, he hasn't responded.
Jihoon: Yep, I think it's on vacation, so it will take some time to…
Jihoon: get his review, maybe we can ask Mikhail, but he's, not sure about his availability. I only asked him, like, twice, so not sure if I want to bother him more. Maybe you can ask him.
Justin Traglia: Yeah. Is there anyone else that you would trust to review this?
Jihoon: I don't want to distract people too much from Glamsterdam, but if…
Jihoon: Nico, if you have some time, as you are, delayed payload processing.
Jihoon: It's merged, so if you have some bandwidth, it'd be really nice if you could review
Jihoon: at least the PR, not the whole, has its back.
Nico Flaig: Is it this week, or maybe we can do it next week?
Jihoon: It depends on your availability. If you could spend a little bit more time to review the head of spec, then it'd be really better, because…
Jihoon: Yeah, I think this… from…
Jihoon: where I stand today, this Bureau is the last change that I can think of that I want to make to the SE spec, so… yeah.
Jihoon: with this PR, I think we're good to say that it has its
Jihoon: pretty much ready for, at least for the first few DevNets.
Justin Traglia: Awesome. And the PR itself is fairly simple. I just wanted a second set of eyes on it.
Justin Traglia: That was a sanity shark.
Justin Traglia: Yeah, I mean, I have approved it as well, FYI.
Nico Flaig: Yeah, I think I can take a good look at it after this call.
Jihoon: Oh, cool. Thank you.
Jihoon: Yeah, if you have any questions regarding,
Jihoon: That's back, please feel free to reach out to me. And, yeah, I think we can move on to development updates. Do we have any client updates?
Fabio Di Fabio: I can talk for Besu.
Fabio Di Fabio: So, we should have all the code in place.
Fabio Di Fabio: what I'm doing now is to do some unit tests.
Fabio Di Fabio: Since there are also Execution spec test, I…
Fabio Di Fabio: I could try to start integrating them and see.
Fabio Di Fabio: Run a battle against them.
Fabio Di Fabio: So the main,
Fabio Di Fabio: For me, it's to… Start integrating with CL, because at the moment, doing all two…
Fabio Di Fabio: Uncertainty about which is the right fork to base the code.
Fabio Di Fabio: I was not able to integrate with any CL.
Fabio Di Fabio: Salt.
Fabio Di Fabio: On the latter, I would like also to discuss how to… Hmm…
Fabio Di Fabio: I improved the integration, which is the right artwork to…
Fabio Di Fabio: to sat on, and so on.
Jihoon: Yep, thanks for sharing the updates. Speaking of which, maybe we can also…
Jihoon: Jump into your comment. So…
Jihoon: I think you wanted to discuss… how we wanna…
Jihoon: Go about integration tests between clients.
Jihoon: And… whether we have any plan for DevNet. So…
Jihoon: if I were to share a bit history, how we worked before.
Jihoon: Previously, when we achieved multi-client local dev nets.
Jihoon: I share the Kurtosis config, and your client used it for their integration.
Jihoon: If there's a bug in either Prism or Geth, I fixed it myself.
Jihoon: And while devs are busy with Blue, I ran it and shared, like, looks so that devs can focus on debugging without losing too much momentum.
Jihoon: I think this time would be a little bit different, because now FOCIL is headliner, so I think client team should own their implementation.
Jihoon: still, I can provide some help from time to time, like sharing some logs, or finding out in exactly which line it crashes, so on and so forth, but I think it boils down to developer resources. So, it leads us to a question about
Jihoon: What's our plan for DevNet?
Jihoon: which we don't have any plans yet. People are still busy with Glad Amsterdam, And I think Glamsterdam…
Jihoon: would take most of attention during the interop, a few weeks before we entertained the idea of running FOCIL DevNets at the end of the interop, but honestly, it seems like
Jihoon: Unlikely from where we stand today.
Jihoon: So the bottom line is, coming back to the original question.
Jihoon: as soon as we have a pair of CL and EL, we can start running local DevNets, and I can help you with that.
Jihoon: Going beyond that depends on resourcing, and that heavily depends on
Jihoon: plans are done progress. So,
Jihoon: I guess it seems like Bezu is ready, but…
Jihoon: I think we don't have any CL ready at the moment. Maybe Nico could share a little bit of, Lodestar status?
Nico Flaig: So for us, it's mostly the Glamsterdam stuff, so once we have that stable and the EPBS or Glamsterdam Defnet working, I think it's pretty trivial for us.
Nico Flaig: So, yeah, I don't think… I think we can make this work, but yeah.
Nico Flaig: I don't want to be too optimistic, but yeah.
Jihoon: Yeah, makes sense. I… saw a screenshot in a PBS channel that
Jihoon: definite is finalizing. Do you, by chance, have any, like, rough timeline that…
Jihoon: you know, when we can expect this Glamsterdam deafness Will they stabilized?
Nico Flaig: I don't think there's a DevNet yet. I think it's only Prism.
Justin Traglia: Oh, and even that's a bit misleading, too. I think that's a modified image that Barnabas created.
Justin Traglia: Of prison.
Justin Traglia: I'll be using AI.
Jihoon: Oh.
Nico Flaig: It might be a Prism-only local run, maybe, but… I don't know.
Justin Traglia: It's just Prism and Geth.
Jihoon: Right.
Jihoon: And we're talking about Glamsterdam DevNet, right? Not ePBS DevNet.
Nico Flaig: I mean, from a CL side, that barely makes a difference. Like, it's a few engine API and container changes, which is trivial.
Justin Traglia: I agree.
Jihoon: Alright.
Jihoon: Yeah.
Jihoon: I think I need to take a look into engine API spec for FOCIL, just in case.
Jihoon: If anything has changed, but… okay, yeah, it seems like…
Jihoon: If we want to be very optimistic that we can expect some CL prototype by the…
Jihoon: by the end of the interrupt, maybe? But… realistically.
Jihoon: I guess we have to wait, like, a few more weeks to have it.
Jihoon: Does it make sense?
Fabio Di Fabio: It would be great if, during the interrupt, we can… Also define which…
Fabio Di Fabio: which are the basis to integrate, so, Glamstadamplus, which IPs?
Fabio Di Fabio: I had to say that for Basil, it's not so…
Fabio Di Fabio: It's not a big deal to adapt to a fork or another, so…
Fabio Di Fabio: It's a matter of changing a few things.
Fabio Di Fabio: So maybe we can, set up something for the interop to discuss… Which is the… Best.
Fabio Di Fabio: Base?
Fabio Di Fabio: In terms of artwork and AIP to… Include?
Fabio Di Fabio: And try to see if there is availability during the interrupt to integrate.
Fabio Di Fabio: At least.
Fabio Di Fabio: Some of the clients.
Jihoon: Alright, in here… Bays… means that, like, which client image that we want to run as a DevNet?
Fabio Di Fabio: I mean, the art fork?
Fabio Di Fabio: On which the code should run.
Fabio Di Fabio: And, so we agreed that we run, for example, on, engine new payload Bo 5 or VOO 6.
Jihoon: Okay.
Fabio Di Fabio: and which… EIP to include, for example, we exclude, EPBS,
Fabio Di Fabio: or we include EPBS, so, so…
Fabio Di Fabio: This kind of stuff, so… so we are aligned, and the client no…
Fabio Di Fabio: How to prepare for a possible Integration network.
Jihoon: Gotcha.
Jihoon: I think we should include a PBS, but whether we want to include other EIPs is up to…
Jihoon: our decision, but I think…
Fabio Di Fabio: Yeah, so for course, AIP, that… could, change…
Fabio Di Fabio: could, so, have some conflict with, fossil, so, for example, EPBS for sure, but maybe… I don't know if there are other…
Jihoon: Makes sense.
Fabio Di Fabio: So…
Jihoon: Yeah.
Jihoon: Yeah, currently we have Slotnum included.
Jihoon: And it is quite orthogonal to fossil, so… We have it…
Jihoon: I'm not sure how it affects on the EL, but at least on the CL side, it is quite…
Jihoon: ready, including this Latinum AIP.
Fabio Di Fabio: For FOCIL is ready as well.
Jihoon: Okay, cool.
Jihoon: Okay, cool. I think the best… forward-compatible way would be base… basing off of Glamsterdam DevNet.
Jihoon: But I guess this depends on the situation.
Jihoon: Yeah, so… not sure if you guys will be, at the in-drop, but if you guys will be at the end drop, we can…
Jihoon: I don't know, gather up and maybe…
Jihoon: Grab other developers from different client teams, and then briefly discuss how we can go about it, whether they have more resources to…
Jihoon: Proceed with this, so on and so forth.
Jihoon: Besides that, I can prepare things like…
Jihoon: on the spec side, like, which API versions we want to use, whether Cryptos is ready to support HESI,
Jihoon: Yeah, we can also update the Rider Explorer.
Jihoon: Because I think it will be out… it is quite outdated, so, yeah.
Jihoon: We'll see, like, I guess it depends on how much progress we can make.
Jihoon: In this week. Yeah, hopefully we can… if we can have the first FOCIL DevNet during the intro.
Jihoon: never really nice.
Jihoon: Alright, do we have any more comments, or…
Jihoon: Something to discuss.
Jihoon: Otherwise, I think… Wait a minute…
Jihoon: Yeah.
Jihoon: Do you guys think that…
Jihoon: It is better to skip next.
Jihoon: breakout on the 5th, or do you want to still have it? I mean, like, do we still gonna have something to discuss, in the… in two weeks?
Justin Florentine (Besu): I think that's actually gonna depend on some of the Glamsterdam spec.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Like, DebNet Zero needs to be stabilized, and as far as I know, it's…
Justin Florentine (Besu): Still, even with the gas changes, gas costing changes, it's still in flux.
Fabio Di Fabio: Could also be that after the interrupt, we have something to check.
Fabio Di Fabio: Maybe some development, and we can… Check.
Fabio Di Fabio: On the next… Cold.
Fabio Di Fabio: Always cooling.
Justin Florentine (Besu): I would say keep it on the books, yeah.
Jihoon: Yeah, yeah, makes sense. Yeah, we can just say that we can have our next breakout in two weeks, and if…
Jihoon: with… if things turn out that there's nothing to discuss in two weeks, then we can just skip it. So, yeah, okay. Thank you, guys.
Jihoon: Let's make a good progress in the interop, and see you guys in 2 weeks. Thank you!
Fabio Di Fabio: Okay.
Nico Flaig: Thanks, yep.
Justin Traglia: Hi, everyone.
Jihoon: Bye, bet.